---
layout: post
title: Rap lyrics
category: Data
tags: python
description: My attempt to justify scoffing at new rappers using Beautiful Soup
---

The gruelish semester is over! The last few weeks were busy w/ proving convergence or solving other difficult questions so I was 
glad for a little break post Christmas to code something. I enjoy listening to some hip-hop, and a rapper known as J. Cole recently
released an album. Lately, so many so called 'mumble-rappers' have emerged so I was excited to have someone I enjoyed putting out music.
Mumble-rappers have this title because people joke how they don't speak coherently during their songs and how they seem to just mumble
the same words over and over again (almost as if they have two choruses going on). With this in mind, I decided to see just how
repetitive these 'mumble rappers' are vs other 'elite' rappers (at least in my eyes). 

I wrote a script that accepts a rapper's name and his or her album. It then gets the links to each song's lyrics, scraps the number of unique words per song, 
and finally creates a Pandas dataframe. 

{% highlight ruby %} rapperDriver('kendrick lamar', 'to pimp a butterfly') {% endhighlight %}


Additionally, I scrapped the song lengths from Wikipedia. This was actually the difficult part.
Since Wikipedia allows anyone to edit it's page, many of the album's pages have different formats - some of the info is stored in table, other's 
have the same type of information in an unordered list.. the labels are different, etc. Due to this, I pretty much made it work for the people
I was interested in, so it's not generalizable to any artist. 
